Feat: Support OTel tracing using ngx_otel_module (#1238)
nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric: docs/data-plane-configuration.md

# Data Plane Configuration

This document describes how to enable or customize various NGINX features.

## Overview

> NGINX Gateway Fabric supports enabling or customizing various NGINX features via NginxProxy resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NGINX Gateway Fabric supports enabling or customizing various NGINX features using the NginxProxy resource.
```

The resource is created during the installation of NGINX Gateway Fabric. An update to the resource will make
NGINX Gateway Fabric regenerate NGINX configuration and reload NGINX.

If using manifests, the default name of the resource is `nginx-proxy-config`. If using Helm, the default name
of the resource is `<release-name>-proxy-config`. It is deployed in the same Namespace as the controller
(default `nginx-gateway`).

> The control plane only watches this single instance of the custom resource. If the resource is invalid per the OpenAPI

Reviewer: Rather than "only watches this single instance of the custom resource", I'd mention that we only watch the one that's referenced in the associated GatewayClass for this control plane.

schema, the Kubernetes API server will reject the changes. If the resource is deleted or deemed invalid by NGINX

> Gateway Fabric, a warning Event is created in the `nginx-gateway` Namespace, and the default values will be used by

Reviewer: Do we actually create an event for this?

the data plane for its configuration. Additionally, the control plane updates the status of the resource (if it exists)
to reflect whether it is valid or not.

### Spec

| name | description                                        | type              | required |
| ---- | -------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| http | HTTP defines the NGINX HTTP context configuration. | [http](#spechttp) | no       |

### Spec.HTTP

| name      | description                                    | type                        | required |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | -------- |
| telemetry | Telemetry defines the telemetry configuration. | [telemetry](#spectelemetry) | no       |

> ### Spec.Telemetry

Reviewer 2: Should this be `Spec.HTTP.Telemetry`?

Reviewer 3: If so, would it need to be `Spec.HTTP.Telemetry.Tracing`? But I also see there are parts where we just reference `proxy.Tracing` without needing to go through the objects.

Author: > If so, would it need to be Spec.HTTP.Telemetry.Tracing

Yes, I've updated it 👍🏼 

> But I also see there are parts where we just reference proxy.Tracing without needing to go through the objects.

I think what you're referring to is when we're referencing the `graph` Tracing object?

Reviewer 3: Yea, it in the `configuration.go` files I'm seeing the graph's `NginxProxy` directly reference `proxy.Tracing`, why is that able to do that?

| name    | description                                | type                    | required |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------- | -------- |
| tracing | Tracing defines the tracing configuration. | [tracing](#spechttptelemetrytracing) | no       |

### Spec.HTTP.Telemetry.Tracing

| name       | description                                                                                                         | type   | required |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | -------- |

> | enable    | Enabled enables or disables OpenTelemetry tracing at the HTTP context. Default is false.                            | bool   | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| enable    | Enable enables or disables OpenTelemetry tracing at the HTTP context. Default is false.                            | bool   | no       |
```

| interval   | Interval specifies the tracing interval. Default is 5s.                                                             | string | no       |
| batchSize  | BatchSize specifies the maximum number of spans to be sent in one batch per worker. Default is 512.                 | int    | no       |
| batchCount | BatchCount specifies the number of pending batches per worker, spans exceeding the limit are dropped. Default is 4. | int    | no       |

## Viewing and Updating the Configuration

> For the following examples, the name `nginx-proxy-config` should be updated to the name of the resource that
> was created by your installation.

To view the current configuration:

```shell
kubectl -n nginx-gateway get nginxproxies nginx-proxy-config -o yaml
```

To update the configuration:

```shell
kubectl -n nginx-gateway edit nginxproxies nginx-proxy-config
```

This will open the configuration in your default editor. You can then update and save the configuration, which is
applied automatically to the data plane.

To view the status of the configuration:

```shell
kubectl -n nginx-gateway describe nginxproxies nginx-proxy-config

> ```

Reviewer: Per my other comment regarding whether or not we need an example, I would update this doc maybe with an example Jaeger deployment and telemetry config that would send traces there.
